README.md, before:

# dictNER: a simple dictionary-based method for NER

This script collects an entity dictionary from the training data and directly uses the dictionary to label the testing sentences. It is useful when one would like to know how well this simple method can work on a NER data set. We show the results on some well-known NER datasets.

## Usage:
``python train-dict-ner.py /path/to/training_data /path/to/test_data``


## Results: 

- CoNLL 2003 English NER

```angular2html
processed 46665 tokens with 5648 phrases; found: 3715 phrases; correct: 2680.
accuracy:  89.30%; precision:  72.14%; recall:  47.45%; FB1:  57.25
              LOC: precision:  79.76%; recall:  75.36%; FB1:  77.50  1576
             MISC: precision:  74.51%; recall:  64.96%; FB1:  69.41  612
              ORG: precision:  65.63%; recall:  45.76%; FB1:  53.92  1158
              PER: precision:  56.10%; recall:  12.80%; FB1:  20.85  369
```

- OntoNotes 5.0 NER (11 names)

```angular2html
processed 230118 tokens with 8446 phrases; found: 61778 phrases; correct: 4750.
accuracy:  73.37%; precision:   7.69%; recall:  56.24%; FB1:  13.53
            EVENT: precision:  25.22%; recall:  34.12%; FB1:  29.00  115
              FAC: precision:   9.03%; recall:   9.40%; FB1:   9.21  155
              GPE: precision:  16.05%; recall:  81.62%; FB1:  26.82  12950
         LANGUAGE: precision:   2.50%; recall:  40.91%; FB1:   4.71  360
              LAW: precision:  19.35%; recall:  13.64%; FB1:  16.00  31
              LOC: precision:  13.63%; recall:  35.81%; FB1:  19.74  565
             NORP: precision:   3.71%; recall:  84.85%; FB1:   7.11  22653
              ORG: precision:  18.23%; recall:  37.31%; FB1:  24.50  4097
           PERSON: precision:   4.37%; recall:  41.94%; FB1:   7.92  20473
          PRODUCT: precision:  21.43%; recall:  30.00%; FB1:  25.00  126
      WORK_OF_ART: precision:  11.07%; recall:  16.57%; FB1:  13.27  253
```


- OntoNotes 5.0 NER (11 names + 7 values)

```angular2html
processed 230118 tokens with 12586 phrases; found: 86934 phrases; correct: 6648.
accuracy:  62.45%; precision:   7.65%; recall:  52.82%; FB1:  13.36
         CARDINAL: precision:   3.02%; recall:  72.34%; FB1:   5.79  24099
             DATE: precision:  10.13%; recall:  45.22%; FB1:  16.55  7977
            EVENT: precision:  30.67%; recall:  27.06%; FB1:  28.75  75
              FAC: precision:   8.00%; recall:   8.05%; FB1:   8.03  150
              GPE: precision:  19.24%; recall:  80.40%; FB1:  31.04  10642
         LANGUAGE: precision:   5.00%; recall:  40.91%; FB1:   8.91  180
              LAW: precision:  10.34%; recall:   6.82%; FB1:   8.22  29
              LOC: precision:  13.90%; recall:  33.49%; FB1:  19.65  518
            MONEY: precision:   5.31%; recall:   3.10%; FB1:   3.91  207
             NORP: precision:   4.58%; recall:  84.65%; FB1:   8.68  18315
          ORDINAL: precision:  17.02%; recall:  96.62%; FB1:  28.94  1175
              ORG: precision:  14.55%; recall:  37.46%; FB1:  20.96  5155
          PERCENT: precision:  74.73%; recall:  33.33%; FB1:  46.10  182
           PERSON: precision:   5.91%; recall:  41.89%; FB1:  10.36  15122
          PRODUCT: precision:  21.05%; recall:  22.22%; FB1:  21.62  95
         QUANTITY: precision:   0.39%; recall:   0.65%; FB1:   0.49  256
             TIME: precision:   2.53%; recall:  30.22%; FB1:   4.68  2684
      WORK_OF_ART: precision:  39.73%; recall:  17.16%; FB1:  23.97  73
```

- W-NUT 2016 NER 

```angular2html
processed 61908 tokens with 3473 phrases; found: 704 phrases; correct: 336.
accuracy:  90.83%; precision:  47.73%; recall:   9.67%; FB1:  16.09
          company: precision:  68.37%; recall:  10.79%; FB1:  18.64  98
         facility: precision:   0.00%; recall:   0.00%; FB1:   0.00  6
          geo-loc: precision:  62.27%; recall:  23.02%; FB1:  33.61  326
            movie: precision:   0.00%; recall:   0.00%; FB1:   0.00  1
      musicartist: precision:  25.00%; recall:   0.52%; FB1:   1.03  4
            other: precision:  66.67%; recall:   5.14%; FB1:   9.54  45
           person: precision:  15.14%; recall:   5.81%; FB1:   8.40  185
          product: precision:  19.23%; recall:   2.03%; FB1:   3.68  26
       sportsteam: precision:  15.38%; recall:   1.36%; FB1:   2.50  13
           tvshow: precision:   0.00%; recall:   0.00%; FB1:   0.00  0
```

Commit message:

add common words as filter

README.md, after:

# dictNER: a simple dictionary-based method for NER

This script collects an entity dictionary from the training data and directly uses the dictionary to label the testing sentences. It is useful when one would like to know how well this simple method can work on a NER data set. We show the results on some well-known NER datasets.

## Usage:
``python train-dict-ner.py /path/to/training_data /path/to/test_data``


## Results: 

- CoNLL 2003 English NER

```angular2html
processed 46665 tokens with 5648 phrases; found: 3715 phrases; correct: 2680.
accuracy:  89.30%; precision:  72.14%; recall:  47.45%; FB1:  57.25
              LOC: precision:  79.76%; recall:  75.36%; FB1:  77.50  1576
             MISC: precision:  74.51%; recall:  64.96%; FB1:  69.41  612
              ORG: precision:  65.63%; recall:  45.76%; FB1:  53.92  1158
              PER: precision:  56.10%; recall:  12.80%; FB1:  20.85  369
```

- OntoNotes 5.0 NER (11 names)

```angular2html
processed 230118 tokens with 8446 phrases; found: 10983 phrases; correct: 4522.
accuracy:  94.76%; precision:  41.17%; recall:  53.54%; FB1:  46.55
            EVENT: precision:  41.11%; recall:  43.53%; FB1:  42.29  90
              FAC: precision:  22.95%; recall:   9.40%; FB1:  13.33  61
              GPE: precision:  57.59%; recall:  80.60%; FB1:  67.18  3563
         LANGUAGE: precision:  47.37%; recall:  40.91%; FB1:  43.90  19
              LAW: precision:  10.91%; recall:  13.64%; FB1:  12.12  55
              LOC: precision:  22.09%; recall:  33.49%; FB1:  26.62  326
             NORP: precision:  58.61%; recall:  59.80%; FB1:  59.20  1010
              ORG: precision:  33.65%; recall:  39.46%; FB1:  36.32  2348
           PERSON: precision:  28.54%; recall:  42.08%; FB1:  34.01  3147
          PRODUCT: precision:  17.54%; recall:  22.22%; FB1:  19.61  114
      WORK_OF_ART: precision:  12.80%; recall:  18.93%; FB1:  15.27  250
```


- OntoNotes 5.0 NER (11 names + 7 values)

```angular2html
processed 230118 tokens with 12586 phrases; found: 86934 phrases; correct: 6648.
accuracy:  62.45%; precision:   7.65%; recall:  52.82%; FB1:  13.36
         CARDINAL: precision:   3.02%; recall:  72.34%; FB1:   5.79  24099
             DATE: precision:  10.13%; recall:  45.22%; FB1:  16.55  7977
            EVENT: precision:  30.67%; recall:  27.06%; FB1:  28.75  75
              FAC: precision:   8.00%; recall:   8.05%; FB1:   8.03  150
              GPE: precision:  19.24%; recall:  80.40%; FB1:  31.04  10642
         LANGUAGE: precision:   5.00%; recall:  40.91%; FB1:   8.91  180
              LAW: precision:  10.34%; recall:   6.82%; FB1:   8.22  29
              LOC: precision:  13.90%; recall:  33.49%; FB1:  19.65  518
            MONEY: precision:   5.31%; recall:   3.10%; FB1:   3.91  207
             NORP: precision:   4.58%; recall:  84.65%; FB1:   8.68  18315
          ORDINAL: precision:  17.02%; recall:  96.62%; FB1:  28.94  1175
              ORG: precision:  14.55%; recall:  37.46%; FB1:  20.96  5155
          PERCENT: precision:  74.73%; recall:  33.33%; FB1:  46.10  182
           PERSON: precision:   5.91%; recall:  41.89%; FB1:  10.36  15122
          PRODUCT: precision:  21.05%; recall:  22.22%; FB1:  21.62  95
         QUANTITY: precision:   0.39%; recall:   0.65%; FB1:   0.49  256
             TIME: precision:   2.53%; recall:  30.22%; FB1:   4.68  2684
      WORK_OF_ART: precision:  39.73%; recall:  17.16%; FB1:  23.97  73
```

- W-NUT 2016 NER 

```angular2html
processed 61908 tokens with 3473 phrases; found: 704 phrases; correct: 336.
accuracy:  90.83%; precision:  47.73%; recall:   9.67%; FB1:  16.09
          company: precision:  68.37%; recall:  10.79%; FB1:  18.64  98
         facility: precision:   0.00%; recall:   0.00%; FB1:   0.00  6
          geo-loc: precision:  62.27%; recall:  23.02%; FB1:  33.61  326
            movie: precision:   0.00%; recall:   0.00%; FB1:   0.00  1
      musicartist: precision:  25.00%; recall:   0.52%; FB1:   1.03  4
            other: precision:  66.67%; recall:   5.14%; FB1:   9.54  45
           person: precision:  15.14%; recall:   5.81%; FB1:   8.40  185
          product: precision:  19.23%; recall:   2.03%; FB1:   3.68  26
       sportsteam: precision:  15.38%; recall:   1.36%; FB1:   2.50  13
           tvshow: precision:   0.00%; recall:   0.00%; FB1:   0.00  0
```

## Notes

- when an entity has multiple types in the training data, we consider it to be of the most common type (when there is a tie, we take the most globally frequent one)
- the results can be different using python 3.5.x and 3.6/7.x. We use python 3.7.x to run the script.
